 Objective:- Assignments will help trainees to understand the basics of unix command and how to explore and use it.
 




***DO NOT copy paste commands from internet, though you can take help of teh internet for the assignments below.

****Be Honest to yourself!





important command and option to learn unix commands:-

1. man <-- Command

 	Example:-

 		man ls

 

 2. --help <-- Option

 	Example:-

 		ls --help

 

 NOTE:- Always use "man" command before using any unix commands and read about it and its options and how to use it.

 

  

 Assignments:-

 

 1. List the contents of a directory and their attributes 

 Ans : ls

 	

 

 2. Long list the content with file, directory ownership, permissions,sizes, etc...

 Ans: ls -l

 	

 

 3. Display the size of the file in human readable format

 Ans: ls -lh

 	

 

 4. Show all files and folders including hidden one

 Ans : ls -la	

 

 

 5. list directories recursively

 Ans : ls -R

 	

 

 6. Sort the files by size with largest at the top

 Ans : ls -lS

 

 	

 7. Sort the files by last time modified displaying the newest first.

 Ans: ls -lt

 

 8. Diplay the location of a program/command, where it is installed.

 Ans: which 'software name'

 

 9. Which command is used to switch directory from one to another

 Ans: cd 'directory name'

 

 	

 10. List all the environment variables set for the current shell environment

 Ans: env	

 

 11. Did you notice something in the output of "env" command?

 Ans: Yes

 

 	

 12. Which command is used to print the text or any variables value in the Console/Terminal?

 Ans: echo

 

 13. Print the value of the env variable "PATH" on the console

 Ans: echo $PATH

 	

 14. Is linux a case-sensitive operating system?

 Ans: Yes	

 

 15. Is, "Ls" same as "ls"?

 Ans: No	

 

 16. Display your currently logged in user

 Ans: whoami	

 

 17. how do you change the currrently logged in user to another user?

 Ans: su - 

 

 18. Which command is used to leave a shell environment that you are currently logged in to?

 Ans: exit

 

 19. How do you reboot the system?

 Ans: reboot 

 

 20. How do you shutdown the system?

 Ans: shutdown			 

 

 21. Display all the major running processes in the system

 Ans: ps - ef / top

 	

 

 22. Understand the output of command used in above question of displaying processes, explain the meaning of each column and what data it displays?

 Ans: PID: Unique Process ID

      TTY – terminal type that the user is logged into

      Time: running time

      cmd: name of the command that launched the process. 

 

  23. Display the name of the system kernel

  Ans: uname -s

  

  24. display the kernel release number

  Ans: uname -r	

  

  25. display the machine type of the current kernel

  Ans: uname -m

  	

  26. Display the name of the operating system that the kernel is running on

  Ans: uname - o	

  

  27. Display all info that uname command can show.

  Ans: uname -a

  

  28. Display the name of directory that you are currently pointing to

  Ans: pwd

  

  29. change the current directory to another directory that you have in your system.

  Ans: cd 'dir name'

  

  30. Go up one directory

  Ans: cd ..

  

  31. Return to last directory

  Ans: cd -

  

  32. change the current directory to home(logged in user's) directory

  Ans: cd ~

  

  33. How to check all the command used from the prompt (Command History)

  Ans: history

  

  34. In which file the history of commands are stored in?

  Ans: .bash_history

  

  35. How many lines of history does the system keep and from where you can change it?

  Ans: hist control	

  

  36. How can you modify bash's history behaviour

  Ans: 	

  

  37. Display all the commands entered so far, now, try to run a particular command from the history list without typing that command.

  Ans: $ plus the number of history	

  

  NOTE:- TAB key is your friend when it comes to command completion and having long file and directory names autocompleted 

  at the bash prompt for you. JUST BE LAZY AND USE TAB KEY FOR AUTO COMPLETION ;-)

  

  38. What are the different types of shell and where are they used and how do we use them?

  Ans: login shell and non login shell 

  

  39. What is the difference between login shell and non-login shell?

  Ans: If you open a shell or terminal (or switch to one), and it asks you to log in (Username? Password?) before it gives you a prompt, it's a login shell.

       If it doesn't (like gnome-terminal), and lets you use it straight away, it's a non-login shell.

  	

  40. How do we start login shell and non-login shell?

  Ans: Todo

  

  

  41. What happens when you start a login shell (which files are read and used and Why)?

  Ans: Todo

  

  42. What happens when you start a non-login shell (Which files are read and used and Why)?

  Ans: Todo

  

  39. What are Shell Configuration Files, why do we need it?

  Ans: Todo

  

  40. Explain the Order of file usage from the system/user's home directory when user logs in to the System.

  Ans: 

  

  41. What are Shell Variables, list major shell variables and what do they represent?

  Shell variables can be constant variables or env variables.

  Eg: PATH,PS1

  	

  42. How we see all our env variables?

  Ans: env

  

  43. How we see all env variables in alphabical order?

  Ans: printenv | sort

   

  44. What Format does the env var and its values are stored?

  Ans: variable = value

  

  45. How do you create your own varible?

  Ans: Test="Hello World"

  

  46. How do you start a new bash shell?

  Ans: Todo

  

  47. Difference between Local/Shell variables to Global Variable

  Ans: Todo

  

  48. Making a variable accessible from other the shell in the system.

  Ans: Todo

  

  49. Show the real life use case of exporting a variable

  Ans: Todo	

  

  50. Convert the above script file into a command, The file should run with "myappp" instead of "myapp.sh"

  Ans: Todo

  

  51. What is Globbing? Explain in depth with examples?

  Ans: Todo

  

  52. List all entries with extension ".sh"

  Ans: ls *.sh

  

  53. List all entries with numbers in it

  Ans: Todo

  

  54. List all entries that starts with a character and ends with a number

  Ans: Todo

  

  55. List all entries that name length more than 5 characters

  Ans: Todo

  

  56. What is Quoting? and Why do we need it?

  Ans: Todo

  

  57. Write few(minimum 3) unique examples that shows, how a particular problem is solved using Quoting.

  Ans: 

  

  58. How do you find a particular files/directories based on a particular search criteria?

  	HINT:- look for commands -> locate, find and whereis

  

  59. Write major difference between locate, find and whereis?

  Ans: find : find the files by name | whereis is the location of the software | locate is for global search on the system

  

  60. How Globbing is different from locate, find and whereis?

  Ans: 

  

  61. Explain the Linux File System.

  Ans: Todo

  

  62. Explain absolute and Relative Paths

  Ans: Absolute : points to the specific location in the file sytem

  	Relative path : points to a location of a directory using current directory as a reference.

  

  63. What are the different ways of creating a File in linux System? Write an example of each and the difference between them.

  Ans: vi and nano editors

  

  64. In how many ways we can delete the files from linux system? write an example of each and teh difference between them.

  Ans: rm : rm myfile.sh

  rmdir : delete an empty directory 

  rm -r : To delete a directory and all of its contents recursively

  

  65. Archiving files using linux command, write a command to archive set of files from linux commands.

  Ans: tar cf myfile.tar myfile.sh

  

  66. Extract the archived files from the above step.

  Ans: tar xf myfile.tar 





